middleware/requestid/README.md, before:

# RequestID
RequestID middleware for [Fiber](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber) that adds an identifier to the response.

### Table of Contents
- [Signatures](#signatures)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Config](#config)
- [Default Config](#default-config)


### Signatures
```go
func New(config ...Config) fiber.Handler
```

### Examples
Import the middleware package that is part of the Fiber web framework
```go
import (
  "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2"
  "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2/middleware/requestid"
)
```

After you initiate your Fiber app, you can use the following possibilities:
```go
// Default middleware config
app.Use(requestid.New())

// Or extend your config for customization
app.Use(requestid.New(requestid.Config{
	Header:    "X-Custom-Header",
	Generator: func() string {
		return "static-id"
	},
}))
```

### Config
```go
// Config defines the config for middleware.
type Config struct {
	// Next defines a function to skip this middleware when returned true.
	//
	// Optional. Default: nil
	Next func(c *fiber.Ctx) bool

	// Header is the header key where to get/set the unique request ID
	//
	// Optional. Default: "X-Request-ID"
	Header string

	// Generator defines a function to generate the unique identifier.
	//
	// Optional. Default: utils.UUID
	Generator func() string

	// ContextKey defines the key used when storing the request ID in
	// the locals for a specific request.
	//
	// Optional. Default: requestid
	ContextKey string
}
```

### Default Config
```go
var ConfigDefault = Config{
	Next:       nil,
	Header:     fiber.HeaderXRequestID,
	Generator:  func() string {
		return utils.UUID()
	},
	ContextKey: "requestid"
}
```

Commit message:

middleware/requestid: mention that the default UUID generator exposes the number of requests made to the server

middleware/requestid/README.md, after:

# RequestID
RequestID middleware for [Fiber](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber) that adds an identifier to the response.

### Table of Contents
- [Signatures](#signatures)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Config](#config)
- [Default Config](#default-config)


### Signatures
```go
func New(config ...Config) fiber.Handler
```

### Examples
Import the middleware package that is part of the Fiber web framework
```go
import (
  "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2"
  "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2/middleware/requestid"
)
```

After you initiate your Fiber app, you can use the following possibilities:
```go
// Default middleware config
app.Use(requestid.New())

// Or extend your config for customization
app.Use(requestid.New(requestid.Config{
	Header:    "X-Custom-Header",
	Generator: func() string {
		return "static-id"
	},
}))
```

### Config
```go
// Config defines the config for middleware.
type Config struct {
	// Next defines a function to skip this middleware when returned true.
	//
	// Optional. Default: nil
	Next func(c *fiber.Ctx) bool

	// Header is the header key where to get/set the unique request ID
	//
	// Optional. Default: "X-Request-ID"
	Header string

	// Generator defines a function to generate the unique identifier.
	//
	// Optional. Default: utils.UUID
	Generator func() string

	// ContextKey defines the key used when storing the request ID in
	// the locals for a specific request.
	//
	// Optional. Default: requestid
	ContextKey string
}
```

### Default Config
The default config uses a fast UUID generator which will expose the number of
requests made to the server. To conceal this value for better privacy, use the
`utils.UUIDv4` generator.

```go
var ConfigDefault = Config{
	Next:       nil,
	Header:     fiber.HeaderXRequestID,
	Generator:  utils.UUID,
	ContextKey: "requestid",
}
```
