docs/api/middleware/logger.md, before:

---
id: logger
---

# Logger

Logger middleware for [Fiber](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber) that logs HTTP request/response details.

## Signatures
```go
func New(config ...Config) fiber.Handler
```
## Examples

Import the middleware package that is part of the Fiber web framework

```go
import (
    "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3"
    "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3/middleware/logger"
)
```

:::tip
The order of registration plays a role. Only all routes that are registered after this one will be logged.
The middleware should therefore be one of the first to be registered.
:::

After you initiate your Fiber app, you can use the following possibilities:

```go
// Initialize default config
app.Use(logger.New())

// Or extend your config for customization
// Logging remote IP and Port
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    Format: "[${ip}]:${port} ${status} - ${method} ${path}\n",
}))

// Logging Request ID
app.Use(requestid.New())
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    // For more options, see the Config section
    Format: "${pid} ${locals:requestid} ${status} - ${method} ${path}​\n",
}))

// Changing TimeZone & TimeFormat
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    Format:     "${pid} ${status} - ${method} ${path}\n",
    TimeFormat: "02-Jan-2006",
    TimeZone:   "America/New_York",
}))

// Custom File Writer
file, err := os.OpenFile("./123.log", os.O_RDWR|os.O_CREATE|os.O_APPEND, 0666)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("error opening file: %v", err)
}
defer file.Close()
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    Output: file,
}))

// Add Custom Tags
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    CustomTags: map[string]logger.LogFunc{
        "custom_tag": func(output logger.Buffer, c fiber.Ctx, data *logger.Data, extraParam string) (int, error) {
            return output.WriteString("it is a custom tag")
        },
    },
}))

// Callback after log is written
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    TimeFormat: time.RFC3339Nano,
    TimeZone:   "Asia/Shanghai",
    Done: func(c fiber.Ctx, logString []byte) {
        if c.Response().StatusCode() != fiber.StatusOK {
            reporter.SendToSlack(logString) 
        }
    },
}))

// Disable colors when outputting to default format
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    DisableColors: true,
}))
```

## Config

### Config

| Property         | Type                       | Description                                                                                                                      | Default                                                |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------|
| Next             | `func(fiber.Ctx) bool`    | Next defines a function to skip this middleware when returned true.                                                              | `nil`                                                  |
| Done             | `func(fiber.Ctx, []byte)` | Done is a function that is called after the log string for a request is written to Output, and pass the log string as parameter. | `nil`                                                  |
| CustomTags       | `map[string]LogFunc`       | tagFunctions defines the custom tag action.                                                                                      | `map[string]LogFunc`                                   |
| Format           | `string`                   | Format defines the logging tags.                                                                                                 | `[${time}] ${status} - ${latency} ${method} ${path}\n` |
| TimeFormat       | `string`                   | TimeFormat defines the time format for log timestamps.                                                                           | `15:04:05`                                             |
| TimeZone         | `string`                   | TimeZone can be specified, such as "UTC" and "America/New_York" and "Asia/Chongqing", etc                                        | `"Local"`                                              |
| TimeInterval     | `time.Duration`            | TimeInterval is the delay before the timestamp is updated.                                                                       | `500 * time.Millisecond`                               |
| Output           | `io.Writer`                | Output is a writer where logs are written.                                                                                       | `os.Stdout`                                            |
| DisableColors    | `bool`                     | DisableColors defines if the logs output should be colorized.                                                                    | `false`                                                |
| enableColors     | `bool`                     | Internal field for enabling colors in the log output. (This is not a user-configurable field)                                    | -                                                      |
| enableLatency    | `bool`                     | Internal field for enabling latency measurement in logs. (This is not a user-configurable field)                                 | -                                                      |
| timeZoneLocation | `*time.Location`           | Internal field for the time zone location. (This is not a user-configurable field)                                               | -                                                      |

## Default Config
```go
var ConfigDefault = Config{
    Next:          nil,
    Done:          nil,
    Format:        "[${time}] ${status} - ${latency} ${method} ${path}\n",
    TimeFormat:    "15:04:05",
    TimeZone:      "Local",
    TimeInterval:  500 * time.Millisecond,
    Output:        os.Stdout,
    DisableColors: false,
}
```

## Constants
```go
// Logger variables
const (
    TagPid               = "pid"
    TagTime              = "time"
    TagReferer           = "referer"
    TagProtocol          = "protocol"
    TagPort              = "port"
    TagIP                = "ip"
    TagIPs               = "ips"
    TagHost              = "host"
    TagMethod            = "method"
    TagPath              = "path"
    TagURL               = "url"
    TagUA                = "ua"
    TagLatency           = "latency"
    TagStatus            = "status"         // response status
    TagResBody           = "resBody"        // response body
    TagReqHeaders        = "reqHeaders"
    TagQueryStringParams = "queryParams"    // request query parameters
    TagBody              = "body"           // request body
    TagBytesSent         = "bytesSent"
    TagBytesReceived     = "bytesReceived"
    TagRoute             = "route"
    TagError             = "error"
    // DEPRECATED: Use TagReqHeader instead
    TagHeader            = "header:"        // request header
    TagReqHeader         = "reqHeader:"     // request header
    TagRespHeader        = "respHeader:"    // response header
    TagQuery             = "query:"         // request query
    TagForm              = "form:"          // request form
    TagCookie            = "cookie:"        // request cookie
    TagLocals            = "locals:"
    // colors
    TagBlack             = "black"
    TagRed               = "red"
    TagGreen             = "green"
    TagYellow            = "yellow"
    TagBlue              = "blue"
    TagMagenta           = "magenta"
    TagCyan              = "cyan"
    TagWhite             = "white"
    TagReset             = "reset"
)
```

Commit message:

♻️ Refactor: Remove mutex lock in logger middleware
While not all implementations of io.Write will be goroutine safe, the
vast majority of users of the logger middleware are likely to use
os.File, which does implement safe concurrent writes. If users require
locking, they can implement this on an as-needed basis. The risk of
having global locking is that a slow write can hold up the entire
server.

docs/api/middleware/logger.md, after:

---
id: logger
---

# Logger

Logger middleware for [Fiber](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber) that logs HTTP request/response details.

## Signatures
```go
func New(config ...Config) fiber.Handler
```
## Examples

Import the middleware package that is part of the Fiber web framework

```go
import (
    "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3"
    "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3/middleware/logger"
)
```

:::tip
The order of registration plays a role. Only all routes that are registered after this one will be logged.
The middleware should therefore be one of the first to be registered.
:::

After you initiate your Fiber app, you can use the following possibilities:

```go
// Initialize default config
app.Use(logger.New())

// Or extend your config for customization
// Logging remote IP and Port
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    Format: "[${ip}]:${port} ${status} - ${method} ${path}\n",
}))

// Logging Request ID
app.Use(requestid.New())
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    // For more options, see the Config section
    Format: "${pid} ${locals:requestid} ${status} - ${method} ${path}​\n",
}))

// Changing TimeZone & TimeFormat
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    Format:     "${pid} ${status} - ${method} ${path}\n",
    TimeFormat: "02-Jan-2006",
    TimeZone:   "America/New_York",
}))

// Custom File Writer
file, err := os.OpenFile("./123.log", os.O_RDWR|os.O_CREATE|os.O_APPEND, 0666)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("error opening file: %v", err)
}
defer file.Close()
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    Output: file,
}))

// Add Custom Tags
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    CustomTags: map[string]logger.LogFunc{
        "custom_tag": func(output logger.Buffer, c fiber.Ctx, data *logger.Data, extraParam string) (int, error) {
            return output.WriteString("it is a custom tag")
        },
    },
}))

// Callback after log is written
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    TimeFormat: time.RFC3339Nano,
    TimeZone:   "Asia/Shanghai",
    Done: func(c fiber.Ctx, logString []byte) {
        if c.Response().StatusCode() != fiber.StatusOK {
            reporter.SendToSlack(logString) 
        }
    },
}))

// Disable colors when outputting to default format
app.Use(logger.New(logger.Config{
    DisableColors: true,
}))
```

:::tip 
Writing to os.File is goroutine-safe, but if you are using a custom Output that is not goroutine-safe, make sure to implement locking to properly serialize writes.
:::

## Config

### Config

| Property         | Type                       | Description                                                                                                                      | Default                                                |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------|
| Next             | `func(fiber.Ctx) bool`    | Next defines a function to skip this middleware when returned true.                                                              | `nil`                                                  |
| Done             | `func(fiber.Ctx, []byte)` | Done is a function that is called after the log string for a request is written to Output, and pass the log string as parameter. | `nil`                                                  |
| CustomTags       | `map[string]LogFunc`       | tagFunctions defines the custom tag action.                                                                                      | `map[string]LogFunc`                                   |
| Format           | `string`                   | Format defines the logging tags.                                                                                                 | `[${time}] ${status} - ${latency} ${method} ${path}\n` |
| TimeFormat       | `string`                   | TimeFormat defines the time format for log timestamps.                                                                           | `15:04:05`                                             |
| TimeZone         | `string`                   | TimeZone can be specified, such as "UTC" and "America/New_York" and "Asia/Chongqing", etc                                        | `"Local"`                                              |
| TimeInterval     | `time.Duration`            | TimeInterval is the delay before the timestamp is updated.                                                                       | `500 * time.Millisecond`                               |
| Output           | `io.Writer`                | Output is a writer where logs are written.                                                                                       | `os.Stdout`                                            |
| DisableColors    | `bool`                     | DisableColors defines if the logs output should be colorized.                                                                    | `false`                                                |
| enableColors     | `bool`                     | Internal field for enabling colors in the log output. (This is not a user-configurable field)                                    | -                                                      |
| enableLatency    | `bool`                     | Internal field for enabling latency measurement in logs. (This is not a user-configurable field)                                 | -                                                      |
| timeZoneLocation | `*time.Location`           | Internal field for the time zone location. (This is not a user-configurable field)                                               | -                                                      |

## Default Config
```go
var ConfigDefault = Config{
    Next:          nil,
    Done:          nil,
    Format:        "[${time}] ${status} - ${latency} ${method} ${path}\n",
    TimeFormat:    "15:04:05",
    TimeZone:      "Local",
    TimeInterval:  500 * time.Millisecond,
    Output:        os.Stdout,
    DisableColors: false,
}
```

## Constants
```go
// Logger variables
const (
    TagPid               = "pid"
    TagTime              = "time"
    TagReferer           = "referer"
    TagProtocol          = "protocol"
    TagPort              = "port"
    TagIP                = "ip"
    TagIPs               = "ips"
    TagHost              = "host"
    TagMethod            = "method"
    TagPath              = "path"
    TagURL               = "url"
    TagUA                = "ua"
    TagLatency           = "latency"
    TagStatus            = "status"         // response status
    TagResBody           = "resBody"        // response body
    TagReqHeaders        = "reqHeaders"
    TagQueryStringParams = "queryParams"    // request query parameters
    TagBody              = "body"           // request body
    TagBytesSent         = "bytesSent"
    TagBytesReceived     = "bytesReceived"
    TagRoute             = "route"
    TagError             = "error"
    // DEPRECATED: Use TagReqHeader instead
    TagHeader            = "header:"        // request header
    TagReqHeader         = "reqHeader:"     // request header
    TagRespHeader        = "respHeader:"    // response header
    TagQuery             = "query:"         // request query
    TagForm              = "form:"          // request form
    TagCookie            = "cookie:"        // request cookie
    TagLocals            = "locals:"
    // colors
    TagBlack             = "black"
    TagRed               = "red"
    TagGreen             = "green"
    TagYellow            = "yellow"
    TagBlue              = "blue"
    TagMagenta           = "magenta"
    TagCyan              = "cyan"
    TagWhite             = "white"
    TagReset             = "reset"
)
```
