docs/client/response.md, before:

---
id: response
title: 📥 Response
description: >-
  Response methods of Gofiber HTTP client.
sidebar_position: 3
---

The `Response` structure in Gofiber's HTTP client represents the server's response to an HTTP request. It contains all the necessary information received from the server. This includes:

- **Status Code**: The HTTP status code returned by the server (e.g., 200 OK, 404 Not Found).
- **Headers**: HTTP headers received from the server that provide additional information about the response.
- **Body**: The data received from the server, typically in the form of a JSON, XML, or plain text format.
- **Cookies**: Any cookies sent by the server along with the response.

This structure allows users to easily access and manage the data returned by the server, facilitating efficient handling of HTTP responses.

```go
type Response struct {
    client  *Client
    request *Request
    cookie  []*fasthttp.Cookie

    RawResponse *fasthttp.Response
}
```

## AcquireResponse

AcquireResponse returns an empty response object from the pool.
The returned response may be returned to the pool with ReleaseResponse when no longer needed.
This allows reducing GC load.

```go title="Signature"
func AcquireResponse() *Response
```

## ReleaseResponse

ReleaseResponse returns the object acquired via AcquireResponse to the pool.
Do not access the released Response object; otherwise, data races may occur.

```go title="Signature"
func ReleaseResponse(resp *Response)
```

## Status

Status method returns the HTTP status string for the executed request.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Status() string
```

## StatusCode

StatusCode method returns the HTTP status code for the executed request.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) StatusCode() int
```

## Protocol

Protocol method returns the HTTP response protocol used for the request.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Protocol() string
```

```go title="Example"
resp, err := client.Get("https://httpbin.org/get")
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}

fmt.Println(resp.Protocol())
```

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the result</summary>

```text
HTTP/1.1
```

</details>

## Header

Header method returns the response headers.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Header(key string) string
```

## Cookies

Cookies method to access all the response cookies.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Cookies() []*fasthttp.Cookie
```

```go title="Example"
resp, err := client.Get("https://httpbin.org/cookies/set/go/fiber")
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}

cookies := resp.Cookies()
for _, cookie := range cookies {
    fmt.Printf("%s => %s\n", string(cookie.Key()), string(cookie.Value()))
}
```

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the result</summary>

```text
go => fiber
```

</details>

## Body

Body method returns HTTP response as []byte array for the executed request.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Body() []byte
```

## String

String method returns the body of the server response as String.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) String() string
```

## JSON

JSON method will unmarshal body to json.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) JSON(v any) error
```

```go title="Example"
type Body struct {
    Slideshow struct {
        Author string `json:"author"`
        Date   string `json:"date"`
        Title  string `json:"title"`
    } `json:"slideshow"`
}
var out Body

resp, err := client.Get("https://httpbin.org/json")
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}

err = resp.JSON(&out)
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}

fmt.Printf("%+v\n", out)
```

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the result</summary>

```text
{Slideshow:{Author:Yours Truly Date:date of publication Title:Sample Slide Show}}
```

</details>

## XML

XML method will unmarshal body to xml.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) XML(v any) error
```

## Save

Save method will save the body to a file or io.Writer.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Save(v any) error
```

## Reset

Reset clears the Response object.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Reset() 
```

## Close

Close method will release the Request and Response objects; after calling Close, please do not use these objects.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Close()
```

Commit message:

🔥 feat: Add support for CBOR encoding (#3173)
* feat(cbor): allow encoding response bodies in cbor

* fix(tests::cbor): encode struct instead of a randomly ordered hashmap

* docs(whats_new): add cbor in context section

* feat(binder): introduce CBOR

* feat(client): allow cbor in fiber client

* chore(tests): add more test

* chore(packages): go mod tidy

* fix(binder): update CBOR name and test

* improve test coverage

* improve test coverage

* update1

* add docs

* doc fixes

* update

* Fix markdown lint

* Add missing entry from binder README

* add/refresh documentation

---------

Co-authored-by: Juan Calderon-Perez <835733+gaby@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: M. Efe Çetin <efectn@protonmail.com>
Co-authored-by: RW <rene@gofiber.io>

docs/client/response.md, after:

---
id: response
title: 📥 Response
description: >-
  Response methods of Gofiber HTTP client.
sidebar_position: 3
---

The `Response` structure in Gofiber's HTTP client represents the server's response to an HTTP request. It contains all the necessary information received from the server. This includes:

- **Status Code**: The HTTP status code returned by the server (e.g., 200 OK, 404 Not Found).
- **Headers**: HTTP headers received from the server that provide additional information about the response.
- **Body**: The data received from the server, typically in the form of a JSON, XML, or plain text format.
- **Cookies**: Any cookies sent by the server along with the response.

This structure allows users to easily access and manage the data returned by the server, facilitating efficient handling of HTTP responses.

```go
type Response struct {
    client  *Client
    request *Request
    cookie  []*fasthttp.Cookie

    RawResponse *fasthttp.Response
}
```

## AcquireResponse

AcquireResponse returns an empty response object from the pool.
The returned response may be returned to the pool with ReleaseResponse when no longer needed.
This allows reducing GC load.

```go title="Signature"
func AcquireResponse() *Response
```

## ReleaseResponse

ReleaseResponse returns the object acquired via AcquireResponse to the pool.
Do not access the released Response object; otherwise, data races may occur.

```go title="Signature"
func ReleaseResponse(resp *Response)
```

## Status

Status method returns the HTTP status string for the executed request.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Status() string
```

## StatusCode

StatusCode method returns the HTTP status code for the executed request.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) StatusCode() int
```

## Protocol

Protocol method returns the HTTP response protocol used for the request.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Protocol() string
```

```go title="Example"
resp, err := client.Get("https://httpbin.org/get")
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}

fmt.Println(resp.Protocol())
```

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the result</summary>

```text
HTTP/1.1
```

</details>

## Header

Header method returns the response headers.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Header(key string) string
```

## Cookies

Cookies method to access all the response cookies.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Cookies() []*fasthttp.Cookie
```

```go title="Example"
resp, err := client.Get("https://httpbin.org/cookies/set/go/fiber")
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}

cookies := resp.Cookies()
for _, cookie := range cookies {
    fmt.Printf("%s => %s\n", string(cookie.Key()), string(cookie.Value()))
}
```

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the result</summary>

```text
go => fiber
```

</details>

## Body

Body method returns HTTP response as []byte array for the executed request.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Body() []byte
```

## String

String method returns the body of the server response as String.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) String() string
```

## JSON

JSON method will unmarshal body to json.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) JSON(v any) error
```

```go title="Example"
type Body struct {
    Slideshow struct {
        Author string `json:"author"`
        Date   string `json:"date"`
        Title  string `json:"title"`
    } `json:"slideshow"`
}
var out Body

resp, err := client.Get("https://httpbin.org/json")
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}

err = resp.JSON(&out)
if err != nil {
    panic(err)
}

fmt.Printf("%+v\n", out)
```

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the result</summary>

```text
{Slideshow:{Author:Yours Truly Date:date of publication Title:Sample Slide Show}}
```

</details>

## XML

XML method will unmarshal body to xml.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) XML(v any) error
```

## CBOR

CBOR method will unmarshal body to CBOR.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) CBOR(v any) error
```

## Save

Save method will save the body to a file or io.Writer.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Save(v any) error
```

## Reset

Reset clears the Response object.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Reset() 
```

## Close

Close method will release the Request and Response objects; after calling Close, please do not use these objects.

```go title="Signature"
func (r *Response) Close()
```
