docs/intro.md, before:

---
slug: /
id: welcome
title: 👋 Welcome
sidebar_position: 1
---
An online API documentation with examples so you can start building web apps with Fiber right away!

**Fiber** is an [Express](https://github.com/expressjs/express) inspired **web framework** built on top of [Fasthttp](https://github.com/valyala/fasthttp), the **fastest** HTTP engine for [Go](https://go.dev/doc/). Designed to **ease** things up for **fast** development with **zero memory allocation** and **performance** in mind.

These docs are for **Fiber v3**, which was released on **March XX, 2024**.

### Installation

First of all, [download](https://go.dev/dl/) and install Go. `1.21` or higher is required.

Installation is done using the [`go get`](https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go/#hdr-Add_dependencies_to_current_module_and_install_them) command:

```bash
go get github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3
```

### Zero Allocation
Some values returned from **fiber.Ctx** are **not** immutable by default.

Because fiber is optimized for **high-performance**, values returned from **fiber.Ctx** are **not** immutable by default and **will** be re-used across requests. As a rule of thumb, you **must** only use context values within the handler, and you **must not** keep any references. As soon as you return from the handler, any values you have obtained from the context will be re-used in future requests and will change below your feet. Here is an example:

```go
func handler(c fiber.Ctx) error {
    // Variable is only valid within this handler
    result := c.Params("foo") 

    // ...
}
```

If you need to persist such values outside the handler, make copies of their **underlying buffer** using the [copy](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin/#copy) builtin. Here is an example for persisting a string:

```go
func handler(c fiber.Ctx) error {
    // Variable is only valid within this handler
    result := c.Params("foo")

    // Make a copy
    buffer := make([]byte, len(result))
    copy(buffer, result)
    resultCopy := string(buffer) 
    // Variable is now valid forever

    // ...
}
```

We created a custom `CopyString` function that does the above and is available under [gofiber/utils](https://github.com/gofiber/utils).

```go
app.Get("/:foo", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	// Variable is now immutable
	result := utils.CopyString(c.Params("foo")) 

	// ...
})
```

Alternatively, you can also use the `Immutable` setting. It will make all values returned from the context immutable, allowing you to persist them anywhere. Of course, this comes at the cost of performance.

```go
app := fiber.New(fiber.Config{
	Immutable: true,
})
```

For more information, please check [**\#426**](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber/issues/426) and [**\#185**](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber/issues/185).

### Hello, World!

Embedded below is essentially the most straightforward **Fiber** app you can create:

```go
package main

import "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3"

func main() {
	app := fiber.New()

	app.Get("/", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
		return c.SendString("Hello, World!")
	})

	app.Listen(":3000")
}
```

```bash
go run server.go
```

Browse to `http://localhost:3000` and you should see `Hello, World!` on the page.

### Basic routing

Routing refers to determining how an application responds to a client request to a particular endpoint, which is a URI (or path) and a specific HTTP request method (`GET`, `PUT`, `POST`, etc.).

Each route can have **multiple handler functions** that are executed when the route is matched.

Route definition takes the following structures:

```go
// Function signature
app.Method(path string, ...func(fiber.Ctx) error)
```

- `app` is an instance of **Fiber**
- `Method` is an [HTTP request method](https://docs.gofiber.io/api/app#route-handlers): `GET`, `PUT`, `POST`, etc.
- `path` is a virtual path on the server
- `func(fiber.Ctx) error` is a callback function containing the [Context](https://docs.gofiber.io/api/ctx) executed when the route is matched

**Simple route**

```go
// Respond with "Hello, World!" on root path, "/"
app.Get("/", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	return c.SendString("Hello, World!")
})
```

**Parameters**

```go
// GET http://localhost:8080/hello%20world

app.Get("/:value", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	return c.SendString("value: " + c.Params("value"))
	// => Get request with value: hello world
})
```

**Optional parameter**

```go
// GET http://localhost:3000/john

app.Get("/:name?", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	if c.Params("name") != "" {
		return c.SendString("Hello " + c.Params("name"))
		// => Hello john
	}
	return c.SendString("Where is john?")
})
```

**Wildcards**

```go
// GET http://localhost:3000/api/user/john

app.Get("/api/*", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	return c.SendString("API path: " + c.Params("*"))
	// => API path: user/john
})
```

### Static files

To serve static files such as **images**, **CSS**, and **JavaScript** files, replace your function handler with a file or directory string.

Function signature:

```go
app.Static(prefix, root string, config ...Static)
```

Use the following code to serve files in a directory named `./public`:

```go
app := fiber.New()

app.Static("/", "./public") 

app.Listen(":3000")
```

Now, you can load the files that are in the `./public` directory:

```bash
http://localhost:3000/hello.html
http://localhost:3000/js/jquery.js
http://localhost:3000/css/style.css
```

### Note

For more information on how to build APIs in Go with Fiber, please check out this excellent article
[on building an express-style API in Go with Fiber](https://blog.logrocket.com/express-style-api-go-fiber/).

Commit message:

middleware: add static middleware (#3006)
* middleware: add static middleware

* uncomment broken tests

* introduce isfile config property to fix file issues

* test

* add io/fs support to static mw

* add io/fs support to static mw

* remove filesystem and app.Static

* fix linter

* apply review

* support disablecache

* support multi indexes

* add an example for io/fs

* update whats new & apply reviews

* update

* use fasthttp from master

* Update .github/README.md

Co-authored-by: RW <rene@gofiber.io>

* update1

* apply reviews

* update

* update

* update examples

* add more examples

---------

Co-authored-by: RW <rene@gofiber.io>

docs/intro.md, after:

---
slug: /
id: welcome
title: 👋 Welcome
sidebar_position: 1
---
An online API documentation with examples so you can start building web apps with Fiber right away!

**Fiber** is an [Express](https://github.com/expressjs/express) inspired **web framework** built on top of [Fasthttp](https://github.com/valyala/fasthttp), the **fastest** HTTP engine for [Go](https://go.dev/doc/). Designed to **ease** things up for **fast** development with **zero memory allocation** and **performance** in mind.

These docs are for **Fiber v3**, which was released on **March XX, 2024**.

### Installation

First of all, [download](https://go.dev/dl/) and install Go. `1.21` or higher is required.

Installation is done using the [`go get`](https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go/#hdr-Add_dependencies_to_current_module_and_install_them) command:

```bash
go get github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3
```

### Zero Allocation
Some values returned from **fiber.Ctx** are **not** immutable by default.

Because fiber is optimized for **high-performance**, values returned from **fiber.Ctx** are **not** immutable by default and **will** be re-used across requests. As a rule of thumb, you **must** only use context values within the handler, and you **must not** keep any references. As soon as you return from the handler, any values you have obtained from the context will be re-used in future requests and will change below your feet. Here is an example:

```go
func handler(c fiber.Ctx) error {
    // Variable is only valid within this handler
    result := c.Params("foo") 

    // ...
}
```

If you need to persist such values outside the handler, make copies of their **underlying buffer** using the [copy](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin/#copy) builtin. Here is an example for persisting a string:

```go
func handler(c fiber.Ctx) error {
    // Variable is only valid within this handler
    result := c.Params("foo")

    // Make a copy
    buffer := make([]byte, len(result))
    copy(buffer, result)
    resultCopy := string(buffer) 
    // Variable is now valid forever

    // ...
}
```

We created a custom `CopyString` function that does the above and is available under [gofiber/utils](https://github.com/gofiber/utils).

```go
app.Get("/:foo", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	// Variable is now immutable
	result := utils.CopyString(c.Params("foo")) 

	// ...
})
```

Alternatively, you can also use the `Immutable` setting. It will make all values returned from the context immutable, allowing you to persist them anywhere. Of course, this comes at the cost of performance.

```go
app := fiber.New(fiber.Config{
	Immutable: true,
})
```

For more information, please check [**\#426**](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber/issues/426) and [**\#185**](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber/issues/185).

### Hello, World!

Embedded below is essentially the most straightforward **Fiber** app you can create:

```go
package main

import "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3"

func main() {
	app := fiber.New()

	app.Get("/", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
		return c.SendString("Hello, World!")
	})

	app.Listen(":3000")
}
```

```bash
go run server.go
```

Browse to `http://localhost:3000` and you should see `Hello, World!` on the page.

### Basic routing

Routing refers to determining how an application responds to a client request to a particular endpoint, which is a URI (or path) and a specific HTTP request method (`GET`, `PUT`, `POST`, etc.).

Each route can have **multiple handler functions** that are executed when the route is matched.

Route definition takes the following structures:

```go
// Function signature
app.Method(path string, ...func(fiber.Ctx) error)
```

- `app` is an instance of **Fiber**
- `Method` is an [HTTP request method](https://docs.gofiber.io/api/app#route-handlers): `GET`, `PUT`, `POST`, etc.
- `path` is a virtual path on the server
- `func(fiber.Ctx) error` is a callback function containing the [Context](https://docs.gofiber.io/api/ctx) executed when the route is matched

**Simple route**

```go
// Respond with "Hello, World!" on root path, "/"
app.Get("/", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	return c.SendString("Hello, World!")
})
```

**Parameters**

```go
// GET http://localhost:8080/hello%20world

app.Get("/:value", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	return c.SendString("value: " + c.Params("value"))
	// => Get request with value: hello world
})
```

**Optional parameter**

```go
// GET http://localhost:3000/john

app.Get("/:name?", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	if c.Params("name") != "" {
		return c.SendString("Hello " + c.Params("name"))
		// => Hello john
	}
	return c.SendString("Where is john?")
})
```

**Wildcards**

```go
// GET http://localhost:3000/api/user/john

app.Get("/api/*", func(c fiber.Ctx) error {
	return c.SendString("API path: " + c.Params("*"))
	// => API path: user/john
})
```

### Static files

To serve static files such as **images**, **CSS**, and **JavaScript** files, replace your function handler with a file or directory string.
You can check out [static middleware](./middleware/static.md) for more information.
Function signature:

Use the following code to serve files in a directory named `./public`:

```go
app := fiber.New()

app.Get("/*", static.New("./public")) 

app.Listen(":3000")
```

Now, you can load the files that are in the `./public` directory:

```bash
http://localhost:3000/hello.html
http://localhost:3000/js/jquery.js
http://localhost:3000/css/style.css
```

### Note

For more information on how to build APIs in Go with Fiber, please check out this excellent article
[on building an express-style API in Go with Fiber](https://blog.logrocket.com/express-style-api-go-fiber/).
